[Music]
how's it going everyone this video is
going to be over the differences between
low resistance liquidity and high
resistance liquidity let's hop into the
PDF before we go into the charts for
some examples so to understand the
differences between High Resistance and
low resistance liquidity you have to
understand what a failure swing is so
what a failure swing is is when we have
a swing high and then we make a lower
high relative to that before reversing
so this High never got swept before the
reversal and similarly over here we make
a low with a higher low this low was
never swept prior to the reversal so now
what is low resistance liquidity well
low resistance liquidity is just a
failure swing so how I like to picture
it is we have liquidity resting above
highs and lows so as we trade away we
then generate more highs and lows and
thus more liquidity so what is high
resistance liquidity well High
Resistance liquidity is the opposite of
low resistance liquidity it is where we
first sweep that liquidity before the
reversal you can see here we have a high
we make a higher high before reversing
we have a low we make a lower low before
reversing and then what this does is
wipes out the liquidity resting right
here and right here here so now the
liquidity is resting Above This high and
low and that is what creates high
resistance liquidity so now how do I
actually use high resistance liquidity
and low resistance liquidity together
we'll simply put I want to be targeting
low resistance liquidity and having high
resistance liquidity for my stop loss or
on my side of the curve so in this
diagram here you can see we have a high
with a lower high next to it that is our
low resistance liquidity and we just
swept out a low here so if we get Market
structure shift and start to trade away
this is high resistance liquidity so
here we get the market structure shift
or the change in the state of delivery
now here I could look for an entry on
the fair value Gap or the order block or
if you notice here we could not make a
new high after making a low and so what
happens is we sweep this low and what
else do you notice we have a high with a
lower high or more low resistance
liquidity and then the move finishes
here let's hop into trading view for
some examples so here we are in our
first example and if you take a look at
this price action what do you notice
well for me the first thing that stands
out are all these highs resting above
here you can see we have a bunch of
highs lined up and if we look to the
left this High here never took out this
high so we have a higher time frame
failure swing there and if you look down
here we just took out these equal lows
into this Gap so if we're going to
change the state of delivery I'd like to
see price go from this low to take out
these failure swings let's see what
happens and there we go so you can see
price swept this low over here making
high resistance liquidity and then we
trade to these failure swings you can
see we do take out this High here but we
end up leaving equal highs from this
previous high and then we retrace to get
another expansion so here we are in the
second example and if you take a look at
the last 3 days of price action here
what do you notice well if you notice we
have all these lows or previous days
lows which have not been taken out so
you can see that that is low resistance
liquidity on a lower time frame as they
are making failure swings we look at the
high end of this what do we see well we
see that this second day here took out
this first day's High let's drop down to
the hourly chart to see what this looks
like so down here on the hourly chart
you can see we actually have another low
resting right here but what do you see
well we took out this side of the range
creating High Resistance liquidity and
we have failure swings resting below so
let's see what
happens and there we go we retrace into
the range before dropping and taking out
all this low resistance liquidity so a
lot of times what I like to do on the
daily chart is just see where do we have
failures swings and where do we have
high resistance liquidity and that can
add to my bias let's take a look at NQ
daily chart here to see what we have
well we are trading within a range and
if you see we have a high and a low and
then we have a failure swing so let's
see what happens but here you can see we
take out this flow so that has the
possibility of becoming High Resistance
liquidity but as we play this ahead one
more day you can see
now we get the sweep and the closure
back inside the range so here is our
high resistance liquidity and what do we
have on the highs failure swings so if I
have high resistance liquidity on the
lows and failure swings on the highs I
can use this to add to my bias for long
setups so there we go we run the
high all right well let's take a look at
another example here we have a high and
here we have a low so let's see
okay we just took out this high and what
do we have on the low failure swings so
ideally this high does not get taken
before running this low so letting this
play
out we get some consolidation but that
is what happens now what do you see well
now we have a high here with a lower
high and we just swept out this side of
the range in an uptrend
so if this is going to be high
resistance liquidity where would we want
to see price trade to these previous
highs and there we go and another little
add-on here if you see how price took
out this previous day's low before we
moving higher to these highs this is
creating High Resistance liquidity on a
lower time frame so here we are with our
next example go ahead and pause the
video and take a moment to mark it up
but what do you see right here well the
first thing that catches my eyes are
these highs up here you can see we just
have a bunch of failure swings right so
I'll just go ahead and Mark that out
like so and that is acting as a draw on
liquidity now if we're going to be
targeting this High I want to see a
sweep or high resistance liquidity well
what do we see right here we sweep this
low creating High Resistance liquidity
and another important note this is an
important low as it is previous day low
so now I'd anticipate this low to hold
and trade away to this high so let's see
what
happens and there we go so you can see
by just understanding the low resistance
liquidity and high resistance liquidity
an idea was framed now out on the daily
chart you can also see this low
resistance liquidity as these previous
days highs or the last three days highs
were lined up like so and how this day
took previous day low before coming in
and closing and where does it close
above 50% of this Wick but then I can
anticipate the next day to trade higher
to these highs and into this fair value
Gap so once again in this next example
where is the high resistance liquidity
and where is the low resistance
liquidity so you can see we purged this
High creating High Resistance liquidity
and ideally I'd like to see price trade
down down to this low resistance
liquidity now since es formed an smt
here and is weaker we're going to hop
into that chart for the rest of this
example so here we are in es you can see
this is the smt at the high where NQ
created the high resistance liquidity
and where is the low resistance
liquidity you can see we have this
really obvious series of lows resting
right here right above a fair value Gap
with an order block why is this an order
block well it wretch into an important
level then price closed above creating
an order block you can see we have low
resistance liquidity right above an
order block let's see what
happens and there we go we run all these
low resistance lows into the order block
you can see the mean threshold of this
creates a reaction and where do we go
well if you take a look at these highs
now we have a series of lower highs all
stacked up we just swept out all these
lows where is Price likely to go well to
these highs let's see and there we go so
here we are in our last and final
example and if you notice we just took
out our previous day low so as we zoom
in here what do we have on the high well
we have a swing high with a lower swing
High to the right of it or failure
swings so let's see if we get a reaction
off of this
level we do and we get a closure over
this series of down Clos candles here
validating it as an order block now just
in terms of discount in premium doesn't
really make sense to look for an entry
off this order block here so then I will
use the mean threshold or I can just
wait for a second entry so let's see so
the mean threshold does hold and then we
validate another order block so marking
out the main threshold of that as well
let's
see here we create a low I could look
for that so if you notice we swept out
this low here what else do we have
resting well we have failure swings here
so this looks pretty much just like the
diagram from the PDF but what do we have
here well the down Clos candle into the
important level or sweeping right here
once I get a close of that validates it
as an order block and so there we get an
order block formation but look to take
my entry right here my stop on the high
resistance liquidity and then looking to
take off at the highs so let's see how
this works out and there we go we get a
run higher to the take profit so just a
little thing with order blocks here you
can see once we close over the series of
down Clos candles here mean threshold is
respected here we close over creating
this propulsion block which the mean
threshold is continuously respected but
why would I not expect this low to hold
or wouldn't really trust it and want my
invalidation here unless I get a sweep
creating High Resistance liquidity well
price never came and closed over this
level right so I'm not using that as a
valid low for invalidation once we sweep
it then we form another order block off
of this propulsion block and the mean
threshold of that should be respected
which it is and then it continues higher
now I hope you found this video helpful
if you did please consider liking and
subscribing
and I'll see you guys next time have a
good one